Professor: Now that we've
learned about strings,
beatStrings,
and the makeBeat() function,
let's go ahead and write
an EarSketch script
that uses all of this.
It starts in the usual way,
from earsketch import*
and then init() function,
setTempo() function.
And now let's go ahead
and define the sounds
that we're going to use
in the script as variables.
I'm going to use
two different sounds
with two different makeBeat()
function calls.
The first one,
I'm going to define my variable
as “synth,” and we’ll search
for a synth sound the same way
I would always search for
in EarSketch Sound Browser.
We’ll look for
a filter chord here.
[electronic chords playing]
And I can go ahead
and paste that in.
And the second one,
I'm going to look
for a slightly different kind
of sound
in the EarSketch sound
library—something called
a “one-shot” sound.
So, so far we've always been
working with loops that last
for one or two or three
or four measures.
One-shot sounds
are a single hit—
a single hit of a drum
or something like that.
And because they are
just one shot—one hit—
they’re very good for using
with the makeBeat() function
where we're trying to build up
drum beats and rhythms.
And so I can actually go
into the filters here
in the Sound Browser,
go to Artists and pick
MAKEBEAT.
And if I pick that,
it shows me just
the one-shot sound files.
And so when I preview the clap,
I just hear one clap.
[clap sound with reverb]
When I preview the closed hi-hat
I hear just one hi-hat.
[closed hi-hat strike]
And I'll go ahead
and paste that one in.
So those are two sounds
I want to use.
But I can also define
beatStrings as variables.
So I'll go ahead
and do that as well.
I’ll have beat1
and I'll define a string here.
Remember, most beatStrings
have 16 characters in them.
That's 16 sixteenth notes
which makes up
one measure of music.
And if you don't know
how to start,
you can always just kind of
start kind of randomly
with 0's and minuses
and pluses, and listen
to how it sounds
and then figure out how
to change it and make it
into something
you like from there.
But right now I'll type in one
that I've already come up with.
[typing on keyboard]
So this is
♪ ta-ta tu-taaa tu-ta ta ta ♫
And here's another one
that I came up with.
[typing on keyboard]
So this is
♪ ta ta ta-ta-ta ta-ta ta ♫
So now that I've defined
my sounds and my beatStrings
all as variables,
I can go ahead and make
my makeBeat() function calls.
The first argument to the
makeBeat() function call
is always going to be
the sound I want to use.
So in this case I'll use synth.
The next argument
is the track, so track 1.
The next argument,
the measure I want
to put it on, so measure 1.
And then the beatString,
so beat1.
So I do that and I hit run.
And there we go.
[staccato synth chords]
Now, if I want this to repeat
for more than one measure,
well then, I have to do
something to make this repeat
more than just this one time.
And the easiest way to do that
is to use a for loop,
just like we learned about
back in Chapter 8.
So I can put in a for loop
here for measure in range(1,4):
and then tab that into
indented underneath.
And so this time
this means that this loop
is going to execute
for measure = 1,
and measure = 2,
and measure = 3,
and then when it gets
to 4 it will stop.
And so here,
we have makeBeat()—
My sound, synth.
My track, 1.
My measure—well,
right now it's always
going to be 1.
But if I change that to measure,
then the first time it runs
it’ll put this on measure 1,
the second time on measure 2,
the third time on measure 3.
And then we'll always
use this beat1 sound.
So now if I run that,
you can see that we've
repeated this same beatString
to happen at measure 1,
measure 2, and at measure 3.
[rhythmic staccato synth chords]
And now, if I want to add
a second track
with my second sound
and my second beatString,
I can just put another
makeBeat() function call
inside of the same for loop.
So my sound this time
would be cymbal,
my track would be 2,
the starting measure
would still be measure,
and the beat would be beat2.
I can run that again.
Now, we can see we have
a second track here,
my second makeBeat() call,
the cymbal sound is repeating
each time starting on
a new measure, and it's using
a different beatString—beat2.
[rhythmic staccato
synth chords with hi-hat]